Welcome to the Complete Intro
to Web Dev version 3.
Today, we're going to learn to write
websites with HTML, CSS, and JavaScript.
So the first thing I want you to do just
right now is to hop on to this particular
course website that you're looking here.
We're gonna spend all of our time today,
or
most of our time today anyway,
in this website.
So you can either just go directly
to this URL that we have here,
or you can just type bit.ly/webdev-v3, and
that'll take you directly
to the site as well, okay?
So just to kind of orient you on
how this website works, we have all
these various different sections and
there's lessons within the sections.
And so if I click on the introduction
here, you can see I have Introduction and
Welcome to the Class.
So this is the section and
this is the lesson that we're in.
So if you get lost or if you hop ahead
into a different lesson or something like
that, you can always look at the header
to see where I am in the course.
Okay, so this, as I said,
is the third version of intro to web dev.
You do not have to have taken
previous versions of web devs.
You don't have to take v2 or v1.
This is a total revision of it.
We just try and keep it fresh,
so I come back every so often,
make sure that it has the most
accurate information,
the most up-to-date practices,
all those kinds of things.
So I wrote this course to help people
go from not knowing how to code,
wanting to create websites to
having some sort of idea so
that they can express it and
share that on the Internet.
So you do not need to know how
to code to start this course.
It's gonna be helpful if you
know about computers, right?
You need to know where
the power button is.
You need to know how to open a browser,
those sorts of things.
If that kind of stuff is unfamiliar to
you, there is a awesome course already
available to you for
free called Internet Fundamentals.
And I think I have a link to it
down here to Internet Fundamentals.
I'll just show you that here really quick.
You can just hop in,
don't even have to create an account.
start watching videos right away.
So thanks, Frontend Masters,
for creating that.
It's taught by the awesome instructor,
Jen Kramer,
another Frontend Masters instructor, okay?
So throughout the course
of this workshop course,
we're going to go from learning
HTML to CSS to JavaScript.
And I'll kinda talk about what
those are here in just a second.
And we're gonna go from not knowing
how to code to eventually creating
a Wordle clone.
And if you're not familiar with Wordle,
it's that app that's sold to the New York
Times for several millions of dollars.
So by the end of this class, you will have
the skills to create a million dollar app.
I'm not saying that you're going to.
That's not a promise [LAUGH] but
you could, right?
So, again, who is this course for?
Hopefully it's for you.
I tried to create it for you.
If you have those kind of
Internet fundamental skills,
you should be good to go already.
This class is gonna teach you HTML,
CSS, and JavaScript,
which are the three necessary components
to creating a website from scratch.
It'll be helpful if you've
done something like Java or
C++ or something like that before,
but not wholly necessary.
We'll learn the fundamentals
of coding here together.
This website is free forever,
so it's open source.
You can share this website
with your friends.
The videos will be free forever, so
you can also share these with
your friends on Frontend Masters.
Next thing I wanted to
talk about is the setup,
the things that you will need to
get started with this workshop.
You'll need a laptop of some variety.
This would be really hard
to do on a mobile phone.
So anything that has MacOS or
Windows 10 or above,
Windows 11 would be fine as well.
Or something like Ubuntu,
Linux, or something like that.
8 gigs of RAM would get you through this
course perfectly, but you could probably
do most of this on 4, maybe even 2 gigs of
RAM, you'd probably be okay with all this.
None of this should be very
computationally difficult.
So I'll be using Visual Studio Code
throughout the course of this.
I will be giving you kind of tips and
tricks of how to use Visual Studio Code.
I was on the VS Code team, so
I'm a little bit biased about that.
So you can use other editors, but I'll
be showing you the Visual Studio Code.
I'm just gonna suggest that you install
Visual Studio Code for this course.
And then I just wanted to kind
of answer some questions.
People always ask me like,
what's your font, what's your theme,
those kind of things.
So I use a font called MonoLisa.
It's not free, but
be sure to enable ligatures, and
we'll talk about this a ton
throughout the course.
But it'll take an equal sign and an equal
sign, they're next to each other, and
it'll combine them into
a longer equal sign.
So you'll have these special glyphs that
make it easier to read and for code.
Otherwise, Dank Mono is a cool font.
Microsoft's Cascadia Code, that's another
good font to use for your coding editor.
And specifically,
Cascadia Code is free, so that's nice.
For my theme, I use Dark+.
That's the default VS Code theme.
I just always liked it,
though I do hop into Sarah Drasner's
Night Owl from time to time.
For the terminal,
I use MacOS's built-in terminal.
If I'm on Windows, I use Windows terminal.
That's a great one as well.
And then for the icons that you see in
my VS Code, it's called vscode-icons.
I left a little link in there for
that as well.
Cool, so where to file issues?
If I've made a mistake in here or
if you found a spelling error,
this website is open source.
You can click here, and you can see
I already have a issue open here.
So you can just click New Issue,
file the issue, and then we can go fix it.
Because, again, I am only human, right?
I make lots of spelling mistakes and
grammar mistakes in here, so
feel free to do that.
And then cool, so
let me give you a bit of an introduction.
So hopefully that's a bit about you and
why you wanna be here and
what you're gonna learn.
I'll tell you about
a little bit who I am and
hopefully why you should trust me with
your education of learning how to code.
So my name is Brian Holt.
I am a product manager at a company called
Stripe, which is a financial tech company.
If you've ever checked out on
something like DoorDash or Lyft or
any sort of Shopify kind of website
like Allbirds or something like that.
All of that,
all of the payment infrastructure and
all that is run by Stripe,
and I get to work on that.
I am the product manager of
the developer tools for Stripe.
So I work on the Visual Studio Code
extension, the CLI, the SDKs,
all sorts of stuff like that.
Basically, I build tools that developers
then use to build other things.
I've been doing that for some years.
I did that for Visual Studio Code.
I did it for Microsoft Azure.
And then before that, I was
a JavaScript developer for a decade at
companies like LinkedIn, Netflix,
Reddit, some other smaller startups.
So I've been doing this for a while.
I've written a lot of code, and
I still write a lot of code.
Between my day job where I still write
some code as a product manager to writing
stuff at night just for fun.
So how I learned to code,
I learned to code when I was ten.
My older brother,
who was a engineering student at the time,
would make me write code before
he would let me play video games.
Which at the time, ten-year-old
Brian was very upset about this.
While that was very frustrating at
the time and still screw you, Ben, it set
me up for success for today to be a coder
and product manager and all kind of stuff.
So while I did learn to code at ten,
it's totally fine if you are not that age,
right?
You don't have to be a ten-year-old to
have a career in software development.
I've hired 50-year-old junior
developers before, right?
So you can do it at any age.
So this industry is welcoming
to people of all sizes and
shapes I guess is what I'm trying to say.
So, again,
the skills here are very learnable for
anyone that has the perseverance to
go through and try and learn them.
And even if you're not trying to be
a software developer, that's totally fine.
I think coding contributes to literally
any industry that you wanna be in, right?
I've seen lawyers and accountants use
code to make their jobs better, easier,
faster, all those sorts of things.
So when I'm not writing
Frontend Masters courses or
working, I live in Seattle.
I like to travel.
I like to hang out with my wife and
kid, have a cute little dog.
You will see lots of pictures of
Luna throughout this entire course,
and I'm not sorry about that.
I like to exercise.
I do a lot of Peloton.
And then I also play Overwatch and
Dota very poorly,
usually get my butt
kicked almost every time.
Well, let's rephrase it, every time.
As well as I really like scotch,
I like IPAs, I like coffee,
those sorts of things.
Look at that handsome gentleman.
Feel free to catch up
with me on social media.
I'll say that I'm not the best
at responding to DMs, so
just be aware of that.
But you'll usually find me on Twitter.
That's usually where I
spend most of my time.
But I also have LinkedIn, GitHub.
And if you're on Peloton, we can race and
you can probably win there as well.
One last request, if you have a GitHub
account, just star this repo.
You can click there, and
you click on the star thing.
I haven't even starred my own repo,
starred, just like that.
[LAUGH] That helps and makes it
more discoverable for other people,
and it also just strokes my fragile ego,
so please help me.
Okay, so some expectations that
I wanna kinda level set before
we start hopping into everything.
This course is really difficult.
If you've never written code before,
this is gonna be hard.
There's some hard projects in this, and
I push you pretty hard in this course.
It's not intended to be easy,
it's intended to be useful.
So it's okay to get frustrated.
It's okay to hit the wall.
All these feelings are valid.
So don't get too down on yourself.
The enemy here is discouragement.
If you get discouraged or
burned out or something like that,
that is where you lose,
right, and you'll fall off.
So it's more important for you to say,
I understand that this is hard,
I understand this is difficult, and
have a lot of patience for yourself.
But the most important thing that you
can take away from this section is don't
compare yourself to others, right?
It's really easy to look over at someone
that you know that writes code or
other people on the Internet and say, this
person learned to code in 15 minutes flat.
And it was so easy for them and
they can do all these amazing things, and
I can't do it.
I'm not that, and to get really,
really down on yourself.
So you have a perfect knowledge
of your own shortcomings and
you have an imperfect understanding
of the accomplishments of others.
Therefore, whenever you go to compare
yourself to others, you're going to be
extremely critical of everything
because you know all of your downfalls.
And you're going to be overly rosy and
optimistic about what someone else is
doing because you just see them, you're
like, that person is amazing and I'm not.
Yeah, you will always
underestimate yourself and
over-attribute progress to others.
So you're on a very personal
journey of learning to code,
learning all these different skills.
So just have a lot of patience for
yourself and
know that you don't know how hard
it was for other people as well.
And kind of along those lines, don't play
the should game like, I should get this or
I should not be struggling like this,
should not have all these problems.
There's no cosmic law of should, right?
There's no one out there saying,
Brian, he should have got this by now.
He's never gonna get it now, right?
So don't play the should game either.
It's always a trap that new people
fall into that just discourages them.
The most comparable thing that I have ever
done to this is learn a foreign language.
So I spent a couple years in Italy.
I learned Italian, learned to read
Italian, learned to speak Italian.
And believe me,
the first day I got to Italy,
I really couldn't even order
a coffee at a coffee shop, right?
I could probably just point, I was like,
cafe, right, and that would be it.
And except I probably would've
just said coffee, right,
cuz I didn't know what the word for
cafe was, right?
And it's just hard and
it's super discouraging and
you just feel like you're
never gonna get it, right?
You feel like it shouldn't be this hard.
And I'll tell you that it took me months
before I can actually have a decent
conversation with someone or to order
at a restaurant or something like that.
And it took me yet months longer to be
able to have a political discussion or
something that has some depth to it.
And so this is kinda my point to you
is it's kinda the same muscles that you
exercise when you're learning to code.
It really is learning to take
an idea in your head and
express it in a different language.
And in this case, we're expressing it in
JavaScript instead of expressing it in
another foreign tongue.
So this is just difficult.
It's learning to rethink of
how you express yourself.
So if you've ever learned too in Spanish
or French or Mandarin or something like
that, this can feel comparable to that,
that it's just practice.
Lots of practice, lots of work,
lots of not getting discouraged, and
lots of pushing through
difficult situations.
But I'm here to tell you that if
you do it, that you can, right?
If you push through it, you can get
jobs to places like Microsoft and
Netflix and LinkedIn.
I did it, and I think you can, too.